## An inverse problem to determine volcanic structure and its eigenvalue analysis in higher precision
## Dr A. Suzuki   Atsushi.Suzuki.aj@a.riken.jp

## D3 Center, The University of Osaka / RIKEN Center for Computational Science


*Abstract:*  We would like to determine stress distribution on the magma reservoir under the volcano from the surface displacement. The first step for the simulation is to construct an inverse problem by fixing the shape and depth of the magma reservoir and by assuming kinematic balance of the linear elasticity. The problem is described as a determination process of the stress on the internal boundary under given surface displacement to attain zero stress on the surface boundary. This setting is formulated as a variational problem, but discretization returns over/under-determined system depending on the degrees of freedom of the internal reservoir and surface boundaries. The other formulation is based on the minimization process of a cost function to evaluate difference between surface displacement calculated from the linear elasticity problem with controlling stress data and observed displacement. By applying the adjoint method, a variational formulation of the stress on the internal boundary is obtained and the adjoint solution is expressed as a harmonic extension from the surface displacement of the state solution. The discretized system is symmetric and positive semi-definite, but is not easy to solve numerically. Characteristics of the linear system is expressed as a generalized eigenvalue problem and the Lanczos process in higher precision helps us to understand how the problem is ill-conditioned. We will show FreeFEM code for three-dimensional problem by specifying indexing of internal and surface boundary nodes and linear operator by state and adjoint solutions.