## Towards multi-scale topology optimisation of microchannel cooling 
## Dr Hao Li   hli@sdu.dk

## University of Southern Denmark


*Abstract:* Towards multi-scale topology optimisation of microchannel cooling. Efficient thermal management is a critical challenge in high-power-density electronics and heat exchangers. This talk presents our recent developments on multi-scale topology optimisation (TO) of microchannel cooling, leveraging FreeFEM for coupled thermal-fluid simulations and optimisation. In the first part, we employ a homogenisation-based multi-scale TO framework that couples macroscopic conjugate heat transfer problem with parameterised microscopic unit-cell simulations. The homogenised permeability and conductivity tensors are pre-computed to construct an offline library. With gradient-based optimiser, the microstructures parameters are fine-tuned, and de-homogenisation procedure reconstructs manufacturable microchannel geometries. In the second part, we rely on a brute-force density-based TO approach using a reduced-dimensional conjugate heat transfer model. Particular attention is given to the efficient solution of the adjoint problem by exploiting PETSc functionality, which enables memory- and time-efficient computation of sensitivities without explicitly assembling the transposed Jacobian. Both approaches are implemented within the FreeFEM ecosystem, combining its PETSc interface for scalable linear algebra operations, block-matrix formulations, and custom adjoint sensitivity analyses. The workflow is further enhanced by PyFreeFEM (developed by Florian Feppon) for high-level scripting and automated execution, PyTorch for integrating deep-learning-based models, and MATLAB for phasor-based de-homogenisation post-processing.