## Mathematical Aspects of ANM/FEM Numerical Model, Applied to Nonlinear Elastic, and Thermo Elastic Analysis of Wrinkles in Film/Substrate Systems,
## Dr Pascal Ventural,,pascal.ventura@univ-lorraine.fr

## LEM3, Université de Lorraine


*Abstract:* Mathematical Aspects of ANM/FEM Numerical Model, Applied to Nonlinear Elastic, and Thermo Elastic Analysis of Wrinkles in Film/Substrate Systems, and a New Implementation in the FreeFEM++ Language The main purposes of the present work are to present the mathematical and algorithmic aspects of the ANM/FEM numerical model and to show how it is applied to analyze elastic and thermo-elastic nonlinear solid mechanical problems. ANM is a robust continuation method based on a perturbation technique for solving nonlinear problems dependent on a loading parameter. Historically, this technique has been successfully applied to problems in various fields of solid and fluid mechanics. We will show how ANM is used to solve nonlinear elastic and nonlinear thermo-elastic problems involving elastic behavior and geometrical nonlinearities. The implementation of ANM for FEM in the FreeFEM++ language is then presented. The new numerical model is applied to study wrinkles appearing in a planar film/substrate system that is subjected to compressive surface forces at the lateral faces of the film. Finally, the model is applied to a spherical film/substrate system subjected to thermo-elastic shrinkage. In both cases, the ANM/FEM prediction method, together with a Newton–Riks correction (if needed), identifies the equilibrium paths efficiently, especially after the post-buckling regime.