{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red56\green110\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Title: "Dimensionality reduction using an edge finite element method for periodic magnetostatic fields in a symmetric domain"\
\
e-mail: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:albert@tugraz.at"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 albert@tugraz.at}}\
www: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://itp.tugraz.at/~ert/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://itp.tugraz.at/~ert/}}\
Technische Universit\'e4t Graz\
Institut f\'fcr Theoretische Physik - Computational Physics\
Petersgasse 16, A-8010 Graz\
\
\
\
Abstract:\
Symmetric (e.g. prismatic or axisymmetric) domains are common in practical problems in acoustics, electromagnetism, fluid mechanics, etc. and often allow for a simplified treatment of an originally three-dimensional problem in a reduced two-dimensional domain. This is usually achieved by a Fourier series expansion in the symmetry coordinate which leads to a new equation for each harmonic that can be solved numerically by the finite element method [1,2]. For the formulation of magnetostatics via the curl-curl equation it is possible to eliminate one component of the vector potential by a gauge transformation for all except the zeroth harmonic. This leads to a fully two-dimensional problem for two-component vectors [3] that is efficiently solved via Nedelec edge elements. In this talk, the general derivation of the method as well as its application in magnetic confinement fusion devices [4] and other cases will be demonstrated.\
\
\
[1] Lacoste, P. "Solution of Maxwell equation in axisymmetric geometry by Fourier series decompostion and by use of H (rot) conforming finite element." Numerische Mathematik 84.4 (2000): 577-609.\
[2] Belhachmi, Z, et al. "A truncated Fourier/finite element discretization of the Stokes equations in an axisymmetric domain." Mathematical Models and Methods in Applied Sciences 16.02 (2006): 233-263.\
[3] Albert, CG, et al. "A two-dimensional vector potential formulation for periodic magnetostatic fields in symmetric domains", Manuscript in preparation (2016).\
[4] Albert, CG, et al. "Kinetic modeling of 3D equilibria in a tokamak", JPCS / Varenna-Lausanne Workshop on Theory of Fusion Plasmas (forthcoming, 2016).}